>> Josh Long: At this point
I'm entirely in the same jvm.
What happens if I want
to have another jvm?
Well, you have this mechanism,
you have these modules in spring modulus
to support messaging and externalization.
So in addition to publishing the messages
from one component to another in
the same jvm.
You can add externalized to this and
you put in there the scheme for
whatever messaging module you're using.
So, so if you're using Kafka,
you'd put a topic name, right?
Topic name.
Or if you're using RabbitMQ,
it'd be the exchange name, right.
I contributed my favorite module, which is
the spring integration messaging module
which can in turn talk to
anything you want, right.
You saw how you create a channel and
you create an integration flow.
Well, here you put the channel name and
this message will get
published into a channel.
And from there you can talk to anything
that spring integration can talk to,
including SQS.
And Pulsar and Kafka and JMS and file
systems and FTP and email and tcp, IP and
whatever you want, right?
So I'm not going to set this up, but
you should know this is available.
You just make sure to add externalized and
then set up the right dependency, right?
So for example, dependency,
spring modulate events, messaging,
that's the one that does spring
integration, for example.
And there'll be one for events.
Is it sqs, I think and Kafka and
you know, you get the idea.
Okay, so now we've got
externalization in the system and
we've got our decoupled code and
it's modular and all that.
How do I know if it's modular?
What does modular mean?
How do I know if I am modular?
Right well, let's write a test.
As with all things in life,
you just, you write a test.
So var am application modules of and
we'll say adoption applications.class.
I'm going to say am Verify.
Is my code modular?
Let's just see what that means.
So this is my test.
It's junit.
I've got a test method here and
I'm saying, is it modular?
Looks like it's modular.
It's green.
Okay, great.
What does that mean?
What modules do I have?
Well, let's ask.
Am I just going to print out the modules?
I'll say system out, print line, am.
Okay, go down here.
Looks like I've got two modules.
One's called adoptions, one's called vet.
These are the logical beans
inside of each module.
Here are the dependencies.
One package is Injecting
types from the other one.
If my spring module knows about
the structure of my modules,
then maybe I can articulate that for
the, for the architects in the crowd.
Right, great.
So let's write it out.
Go over here.
And that generates a spring
module doc folder.
And I go here, sorry.
And it gives me this nice
architecture diagram.
This is a C4 component diagram.
This is a way to model
components in system boundaries.
Not like uml, but like system boundaries.
And this is using platuml,
which is a text format.
So you can check it into version control
and then use something like graphviz or
plantuml, whatever to generate this image.
Okay, so this is a nice image that
will evolve with the code base.
This is much better than the status quo.
How many of you have logged into some wiki
page to find a diagram, checked into that
wiki from some well intentioned architect
from like the Mosaic age, Right?
Like, it's just a totally different thing.
This is, this is actually up to date with
the code and with the state of the code.
So, good.
So we've got modular code, right?
We got.
We're able to see what's happening, we're
able to observe it, we're able to write
our code in such a way that it's
decoupled and we're able to test it.
This is spring modulus.
It's support for writing code that
is modular and I say modular and
I say that you can test it.
What does it look for?
Well, behind the scenes,
spring modulus is packing up or
packaging rather up something called
arch unit or arc unit or whatever.
You know what my favorite word
in French is, by the way?
Architecture.
Come on,
don't tell me that doesn't sound great.
That's a great word.
Anyway, arch unit is a.
It's a way of testing architectural
constraints in your system.
And we're using that behind the scenes.
And there are several
things we're looking for.
First of all, if you created a like,
this is a module, Adoptions and
vet are both modules for
our purposes here.
And if I created a new module and
I created a new package within that root
package, that root package is the module.
If I create a new package in
here called validation, and
then I create a new class in there which
is meant to support validation, right.
Well, this has to be public.
Naturally, it has to be public.
I have to make it public in
order to use it from my service.
So in this case it's a limitation
of the language proper,
not my design that this type is Public,
but I have to use it.
It's clearly meant to be an implementation
detail for my dog adoption service.
Let's restart this test and
see if I've broken anything.
Nope.
So far so good.
Now let's go back to the vet and
we're going to inject this root type
validation into this module, right?
Add that to the constructor.
Here you go.
I'm going to restart the test again.
So remember, this is a detail.
It's a nested package in another
adjacent root package and
I'm injecting it into another module.
I'm injecting it into
another root package.
Well, that broke the test, didn't it?
It's saying, hey,
you've inadvertently leaked implementation
details about one module to another.
And so if you go down here, it says
module vet depends on a non exposed
type called validation
within module adoptions.
So basically, even though that's public.
It's not actually meant for
everybody in the code base to consume the
nested type validation under the package
Validation was clearly meant
to be a concern of adoptions.
Not the other package called vet.
So if I have a root type in adoptions and
it's adoptions foo and
I inject it into vet, that works.
We saw that earlier.
I injected Dr into the dog adoption
service across two root packages.
But this nested package is.
It's meant to be an implementation detail.
So the tests bark at me.
They say, hey,
you're off the rails here, right?
This is what we want.
And speaking of which, this reminds me of
my least favorite anti pattern in like for
the ages, basically, which is the thing
you get when you do Ruby on Rails, right?
So imagine you have app.models.customer,
okay?
And then in order for
me to use that, I have to create a.
What did I create?
What is it?
Repositories, right.
And that's customer repository.
And then I have to do app services.
Customer service, right?
And then in order to that I
have to do controllers and
then that becomes customercontroller.
In order for this to work,
this has to be public.
That has to be public.
And maybe that does you.
You probably will just for consistency.
This is a terrible,
terrible way to arrange your code.
It's based on the role of the thing
in the technical architecture, right?
This is a model and
this is a repository and that's a service.
It has nothing to do with the feature
that you're implementing.
A much more natural way to organize
your code is to say app customers and
then have your customer type
customer controller etc, right?
If you do it this way,
nothing needs to be public.
You can be very deliberate
about what is public.
You can keep the concerns that
are related to each other together and
you can test this slice by itself.
You can test just the functionality
related to customers.
And you know where the component
boundary is, because it's the events or
the public types that you've exported.